we've all seen it
maybe you've seen on the internet maybe
it's a friend or family member
worse still maybe it's a friend or
family member
but you only find out on the internet
know someone who used to be vegan who
maybe even used to come on
instagram or youtube and take their
shirt off
and boast present themselves in their
bikini bottoms or whatever it was
about all the positive benefits they had
from a vegan diet
and then one day they hit their limit
one day they
just decide they can't digest beans
anymore
they can't cope with a vegan diet and do
they do they
modestly adjust the vegan diet to suit
their digestion
no they swing to the opposite extreme
they start attacking and denouncing
veganism and they become
outright carnivores we've all seen it
happen i i have one friend
we're not close close friends but we've
talked we're close enough that we've
talked about our personal lives
like she's someone i've talked to about
my marriage and my divorce and she's
talked about things she'd been through
on her own and stuff
we're close to that she used to be an
advocate for veganism
here on youtube she even published
cookbooks she had a youtube channel she
had
for years and what was it that pushed
her over the edge
not into not just quitting a vegan diet
not just questioning a vegan not just
adjusting it but going all the way over
to being a meat-eating carnivore it's
beans
it's the difficulty of adjusting beans
at least
in our culture shout out to everyone in
the audience hi lars hi nacho hi whale
nice to
nice to see you all here this is the
kind of video where i just decided why
not do what it's a live stream
why not
when i lived in toronto canada so this
would have been about the year 2001
i was a relatively young man
and i was already shaving my head this
is unusual
canadians are quite taciturn english
speakings they don't strike up
conversation here
but there was a guy working at a
second-hand cd
store so those of you watching this in
the future you don't know what cd means
this is a form of paying for music from
the barbaric past
and this guy had seen me there a couple
times he you'd seen me over there a
couple times ago
and he said to me you know he was trying
to make the transition
to shaving his head and he really wasn't
sure
how to do it and he wasn't sure what he
was doing wrong
could i talk him through what my
approach is
it's the only time this happened in my
life and he was shocked
by my advice he was going out and buying
the most expensive razors and the most
expensive creams and it's kind of
natural i mean people buy a lot of
things that way i don't know they
buy cars that way they assume if this is
the most expensive car it's the best car
i had a friend of mine once he went to
italy and he bought the most expensive
bottle of wine
to give his girlfriend in italy some of
you will be able to figure out what i'm
talking about i've told so many
anecdotes of my life
you'll know the friend you went to
you'll know other things about that
guy's experience in italy
and he presented this to his girlfriend
he said oh i assume this is a
this is a great bottle of wine and she
winced looking at the wine she knew wine
and she said
it is not completely terrible you know
the best
the best bottle of wine is not
necessarily you know people who really
know
wine don't buy based on the price you
know they know things about the year or
where it's from when it's from and what
what it is that makes a quality wine
you know so what i said to this guy with
shaving your head was look
these razors are a cheap
mass-produced product in a factory
it's hit-and-miss go ahead and buy a big
bag
of the cheapest disposable razors
and as you're using them if you're
paying attention you will notice
some of them work great and some of them
in the same pack
are terrible so you've just got to do
this with a willingness
where if you go oh it seems like it
seems like it's not working
you don't blame yourself it's not
technique it's not that you're doing
something wrong
you have to take that razor and throw it
in the garbage and get another one
and the odds are the next one you get
out of the pack is fine like
these things are assembled they're
manufactured at such a low level of
quality control
we want to say the difference from one
razor and i talk i talk this through
with him you know and he was stunned
you know what there are some beans
there are some beans that in this same
sense
from the minute they leave the farm
they're just no good
and it doesn't matter how much you boil
them it doesn't matter
how you cook them doesn't matter what
you do with them
those beans are gonna give you
indigestion
and all you can do is throw them in the
garbage
now i i have never heard anyone on the
internet admit that before i've never
heard anyone
admit that about razors and i've never
heard them admit that about
uh baked beans either no i think about
you know whatever you want to say um
i've lived all over the world the
quality of beans
you get in a can in france
exponentially higher than the united
states and canada
the quality of green peas
that you get from a grocery store in
france in a can
processed you cannot imagine
how much better canned peas are
in france than they are in canada let's
go a little further here
lentils yellow lentils
from iran anywhere in the middle east
turkey north africa
southeast asia all around the world
farmers produce wonderful yellow lentils
not in canada
we have the worst lentils in the world
and they're the most expensive what's
more expensive canadian lentils or
turkish
lentils or middle eastern lentils or i
used to eat lentils in
southeast asia that were farmed in
southeast asia third world countries in
southeast asia okay
you can buy beans that are incredibly
cheap
and farmed in third world countries that
are very high quality
and very digestible and you can buy
beans
or lentils that are very expensive
and of seemingly fine quality and
seemingly good
packaging right that will give you
terrible indigestion just like buying a
bag
full of razors if the razor itself
is bad you just have to be willing
to let it go you have to have real
detachment
about the quality of the beans and what
caused you just and guess what guess
what the thing is guys
just like a bottle of wine you can't
tell by looking at it
okay you can't tell by just holding up a
bottle like looking at the color of the
liquid inside
how good the quality of the wine is now
reading the label
of that's different you know what year
is this where is it from
there are things you know about but i'm
just saying looking at beans
looking at lentils when i lived in
saskatchewan i even met and talked to
the farmers
a couple of times they'd have lentil
farmers and bro
you could not win with those lentils now
this is only one aspect
of the bizarre psychology of ex-veganism
and of vegans becoming anti-vegans and
outright
you know carnivores i don't know if you
guys are gonna see you've got some
people in the guts people notice i see
your comments coming in but you know i
don't wanna i don't wanna digress too
much this this is a video about
one topic you know beginning middle and
end is gonna be about
beans digestion and the psychology of
attrition the psychology of attrition
from the vegan movement as it's linked
to this this phenomenon
you know and look you know what guys
i've heard
i've heard people complain if you tell
vegans
that beans are giving you indigestion
the vegans will just say boil them more
and that doesn't work you know what the
truth is
sometimes okay sometimes
that's the problem and sometimes you
have beans
where no matter how much you boil them
they're still bad
and that doesn't work that's really true
that's really true
and you know we just don't have a
culture that appreciates beans or any of
these ingredients
we don't have a culture that appreciates
peas or carrots or anything else
we have fine wine we have fine whiskey
you know we have a cultural
things but you know not not i don't mean
to interrupt
jump in that if you buy a package
in a plastic container or strawberries
yes
that's right strawberries
but when it's a can of beans you can't
individually see each bee and you don't
know
you can't tell by looking at them that's
that's right this morning like i don't
think you can deal with wine that
weather
so melissa is saying with strawberries
you can look at them
and have some sense of the quality maybe
sometimes you're wrong too maybe
strawberries look good on the outside
you bring them home you're like oh these
were bad
once in a while peaches you feel you can
tell by looking at the outside of a
peach
okay it's true you cannot
tell by looking at beans but some things
in life
are like that we have this thing yes you
got a lemon it's a ridiculous thing
you can just end up with with bad means
what i see happening on the internet
again again some of you will have
friends who've done this
friends people dying people diagnosing
themselves
with extremely debilitating conditions
because of the incidence of a minor
fleeting indigestion caused by beans
now here in canada the mexican
restaurants
are they don't even employ mexican
people we have mexican restaurants that
are all like white
british hipsters you know what i mean
they open mexican restaurants
all right but you can go to a mexican
restaurant in canada where they're
serving beans that are basically raw
that haven't been haven't been boiled or
cooked at all have been just barely
uh uh you know boiled or cooked you know
and you could have a solid 12 hours of
indigestion that's happened to me
innumerable times we went to a falafel
shop here
right we went to a falafel shop and i'm
sorry but the woman was not middle
eastern
this was a white canadian hipster who'd
opened a
falafel shop she has no cultural
continuity with the falafel making
cultures of the world
i think it was at least 10 hours of
indigestion i was like yep well i'm glad
we didn't do that for dinner
because like you know from noon till
midnight or something
i'm completely you know disabled
by the indigestion caused by the beans
in this you know obviously vegan falafel
or
in case you hadn't got the point in this
video you know we're vegan you know what
happens
but having 12 hours of indigestion
because of a bad restaurant meal because
of a bad falafel because of
bad beans in a bad burrito or bad
lentils that you boiled in your kitchen
having 12 hours of indigestion
does not mean that you have sibo
s-i-b-o small intestine bacterial
overgrowth
you people have no idea what
you're talking about
sibo is a condition that people have in
the last few months of their life when
they're
bedridden ill when they can't get up and
walk around it's
totally debilitating and it is largely
co-morbid with
a bunch of other conditions that in
plain english just indicate that your
whole digestive system is breaking down
there are these young women who are on
instagram posing in their bikinis
showing like leaping and laughing and
smiling and doing all these sports
and living this you know wonderful life
and and they're doing it with a vegan
diet and up to a certain point they're
saying hey i'm so thin and strong and
sexy and
you know athletic thanks to the vegan
diet and then they come out and say oh
you know that whole time i was suffering
terribly with
sibo sometimes they'll also claim like
ibs or something
guys these are serious medical
conditions
they think like they seriously convince
themselves
oh i was lying in bed and i had bloating
and i had indigestion caused by eating
these beans
oh it must be that i have sibo
like dude do you know the difference
between the common cold and coming down
with aids
like dude like really the the level
of self-deception
hysteria and then self-justification
built on that fear and history was like
oh now what are you trying to justify
well before
you were an ideologically committed
vegan right so they bought into the
whole thing it wasn't just a health
argument right
they bought in to save the animals save
the planet prevent people from having
heart attacks right so oh they've got to
really roll heavy with this now like oh
no man
oh no i tried a vegan diet and it gave
me this mysterious illness called sibo
oh really did you get a diagnosis do
they have a blood test for that
oh no i just looked it up on reddit
i just went to the youtube channel with
this guy gojiman
i just like guys this is the other thing
to remember okay
i've spent i've spent a lot of my life
around people with phds
okay a lot there were people with
master's degrees
who are stupid and crazy there are
people with phds
qualified medical doctors who are stupid
and crazy i'm sorry
it is not enough in this donation the
year 2021
it is not enough just to say oh but you
know i talked to this guy he's a doctor
i talked to this guy this guy is an m.a
in nutrition
there are people with master's degrees
and phds
who are not just a little bit stupid or
just a little bit insane there are
people who are completely
stupid and completely insane who come
out of those
university programs now again
some of you here you might not have
spent enough time
inside those programs to understand what
the process
of evaluation is what the process of
selection is what the process of
rejection is what it takes to get in
what it takes to to stay there there are
certain
qualities that are selected for you know
in phd programs like i'm not going to
say you know
absolutely anyone can get a pg one of
one of them is patience
one of them is is being a conformist you
know
being a silent unquestioning you know we
used to say brown-nosing person somebody
who was uh
flattering to their superiors you know
what i mean
so someone in the audience is saying 12
hours of indigestion sounds like a mild
case of food poisoning
so william i know what you're saying but
if you've had food poisoning and some of
you
never have let me just think it feels
different
and the symptoms are completely
different okay the type of indigestion
caused by
bad beans is not food poisoning okay
melissa said football yeah oh yeah it's
different
it yes the vomiting and diarrhea
and i can remember food poisoning also
having tremors like where you're like as
if you're cold
you're shaking again like sorry i'm not
saying this so you're willing but you're
kind of
this raises again the the issue i
mentioned before of
assigning a fairly trivial symptom
to some really serious illness like oh
this must be
ibs this must be sibo sibo this must be
food poisoning like no
you just ate something that doesn't
agree with you you just ate something
your body is
struggling to digest and for your
digestive tract 12 hours is not a long
time
it's a long time for you if you're
trying to get your job done but this is
more than 24 hours
for things to digest you know all the
way through so here's here's a question
okay all right pavitra says
quote hello i buy beans and lentils in
asian stores in the usa
i know the difference when i lived in
france
they would have two different sections
for lentils they'd have they'd have
white people lentils
and then they had the foreign food
section for really you know and you
would get dif they tasted different
you could buy lentils that were imported
from turkey you could buy lentils you
know
you could buy beans imported from
southeast asia
i don't remember beans from china there
would be like beans from malaysia or
something or thailand occasionally i
should get these
but you can you can get beans from all
over the world anyway so
pavitra says she buys lentils and beans
from asian stores in the usa
soaking and pressure cooking works every
time but she does have the experience of
eating out occasionally especially from
bad
fast food places so pavitra broadly
speaking
i am i am agreeing with you because
broadly speaking
the cultures that prepare high quality
beans that you can actually digest
they're not this one no they're not this
culture
and uh
even the contrast between france and
canada
i mean canada is partly a colony of
france the difference in the level of
cuisine
the quality of food the quality of
ingredients it's just appalling guys
like just comparing europe to canada let
alone getting into those cultures
whether in
asia or south america or the muslim
world you know the middle east arabia
whatever you want to call it
those people know how to farm lentils
and they know how to cook lentils they
know how to farm dates and they know how
to cook dates
those are the cultures that do those
things those and they do it very
economically too
they do it uh they do it very cheaply
okay so look guys i'm happy to talk
about what you were
if you if you i can illustrate this with
examples
but i'm talking about just a few
psychological factors that really get
politicized you know so one
is this psychology of feeling unfairly
persecuted because you've had
indigestion caused by beans
and beans are for most of us an
essential part of the vegan diet you
guys maybe can't see in the background i
use
pea protein powder heavily so i get a
lot of protein from
from powder pulverized peas peas that
have been dehydrated
and mushed into a powder it's great but
you know you don't have to eat beans
it's a different way to get protein
speaking but if you're not using protein
supplements
it's true beans are a big part of our
life in one form or another
oh yeah we could say the same stuff all
over again about about tofu
i'm sorry but we i am not living
in the homeland of tofu here if you want
great quality tofu at a great price
moved to hong kong i remember in hong
kong i used to be able to get soy milk
that was made fresh that morning and it
was a slight green
tint you know they'd crush it that day
and they'd throw in some it's mostly
made out of dried servings to throw in
fresh
edamame and you know it would go bad
within 24 hours too it had no
preservatives in it they'd crush it that
morning you had to drink it that morning
or
it would go off it was a really short
short lifespan
product no okay you want to live in the
homeland of soy milk you want to live in
the homeland
of tofu and tofu over there is as cheap
i mean it's cheaper than bread you know
what i mean it's not again it's not like
you go into the wine store and buy the
most expensive wine
and it's going to be the best wine you
can't go and buy the most expensive tofu
made in california and it's going to be
the best tofu that's just
not the reality of life on planet earth
it's not going to be the same for
for beings or anything else okay people
have this strange sense
that they're being punished or
persecuted
by having this individual it's not fair
right
and what do they do with this sense they
start thinking that all of the vegans
are in some kind of conspiracy against
them this
really there's it's this shallow and
it's this deep
at the same damn time we have 41 people
in the audience only 15 of you have
given a thumbs up what are the rest of
you carnivores
give it a thumbs up more people join the
conversation uh you give more thumbs up
i just say it'll recommend the video to
more people even including my own
subscribers get some more people in the
conversation
so guys if you change your mind later
you can give it a thumbs down
and i'll tell you something else too
what i'm saying now honestly i say the
same thing to meat eaters like as a
vegan
it's not like i have one message from my
fellow beings and one message meteors
guess what meat eaters have indigestion
too meat eaters eat
beans too meat eaters go and have
burritos but the breeders have both
beef and beets and they have the same
problems they go whoa i went to that
mexican restaurant
if you know yeah right right most are
saying indian food they go
for indian food and have horrible
indigestion too mean eaters have all the
same problems you know
is it different when you're a vegan yes
i mean it's different when you're a
vegan
because there's this ideological ethical
and political element and again you feel
let down you feel betrayed it's like
well the diet is supposed to work for me
the diet is supposed to save the whole
planet the diet is supposed to
be token my sense of moral superiority
over others you know it's real
keeping all those guys you know the diet
means so much more than just a source of
of protein and calories and then whoa
you have this indigestion
and you feel like the diet doesn't work
now i just say the word hysteria
obviously is used with
negative connotations obviously
obviously there's no value neutral why
the title is there
but i would say there's a kind of
sincere hysteria
in their swinging from having so much
faith
in the vegan diet to being disillusioned
just by their own indigestion and then
blaming all the other vegans who aren't
having this problem
well they must be like they must be
having the same problem i'm having you
know and
this whole thing must be a sham and then
they get in touch with
you know sphereage and the carnivore
doctors and
really and then you hear them five
minutes late you know
um
we've had situations where
we buy beans in bulk here so dried beans
in bulk that later you're gonna soak and
you're gonna
you know boil and cook and like we maybe
give the bag of beans like fortunes
they're really cheap here
you know and you're like oh you know
this particular bag of beans
i had indigestion i said did you have
indigestion after you know yeah you know
like we're talking about in our own
apartment
it's not all beans so mostly we eat
black beans now
it's not it's not like it's just this
particular
bag of beans from this particular farm
is no good you know and we have had to
take a bag of beans and
you know throw it in the garbage that's
all you can do oh you can
compost it you've had you've had to give
up and be like well okay
and let's try let's buy the same specie
of bean
it's not even a species the same breed
or varietal people say varietal in
agriculture agribusiness you know okay
you know let's go over to this other
shop and let's buy their black beans
and they look the same like to the naked
eye
you can't judge but the one set of beans
is farmed in saskatchewan and one is
probably farmed in mexico
in totally different climatic conditions
in totally different soil
by a different farmer and guess what
they taste different and they
digest differently too you know like
there are differences
in these things i just i just say i've
mentioned the thing with red wine
a bunch of times you know think about
tobacco
you know people who really care about
can taste the difference between a cigar
grown in cuba
and a cigar grown in the dominican
republic
now if you don't know these are two
different islands almost the same
climate almost the same soil but it's
not the same
right i mean you know wine grown in
france in the west of france
as opposed to wine grown in the
rhineland in germany
so think of the map how different is the
climate how different so
you can taste the difference you can
know the difference
right we have a culture that looks at
you know black beans as if it's a
mass-produced
solid plastic item if i order 10 of
these
that this is a plastic phone case
they're actually silicon
they're all going to be exactly the same
right beans are produced by the earth
and the sun
and the wind at the moon and the stars
you know what i mean
like there's this really false
expectation of consistency from the
beans and there's a false
expectation of ourselves too so i got to
say this guys
many people who are atheists still
still to this day labor under a kind of
delusion
that this world was made for us right
like as if
beings were created in order to nourish
you
now was a famous example of this in the
internet maybe 10 years ago people's
jokes
there was a christian preacher who was
arguing against
the theory of evolution and his his
proof like what he used he did this
in i think he did it a hundred times and
then put somebody put on the internet
like you know something he did when
giving
lectures at churches was that he would
hold up a banana
and he would talk about how perfectly a
banana is shaped to fit in your hand and
he would he would extol the virtues of
the the banana is so perfectly suited
to fit in your pocket and fit your hand
and it tastes great and it nourishes you
and like this was proof of like god's
divine intervention
like the as if the world is created to
entertain and feed and nourish us
right and sooner or later someone got
through and they're like look look dude
this is what the banana looks like in
nature before human beings
intervene and started selectively
bringing them and like adapted them to
suit
human you know what i mean like this
this resembles a wild banana
about as much as a french poodle
resembles a wild wolf
okay like you know we've done things to
nature as humans you know there's no
real resemblance here and he he stopped
using it in his lectures but for a time
there were people internet criticizing
this christian
christian preacher this way okay but
this same kind of fallacy
you know what i mean uh
on a deep level even people who are
atheists
they look at the universe this way like
oh
the universe wants us to be healthy and
happy and
flourishing these are the same people
who won't eat anything that came out of
a can these the same people who will
you know refuse to use a toothbrush like
because the universe like the universe
didn't create you to have tooth decay or
something
you know they they want to believe that
the world is
created and shaped and guided
by an inev by a benevolent intelligence
by a caring disembodied parent
that has provided these plants for you
to nourish you
and it's not true there is no god
that created marijuana for you to get
high
okay the marijuana the marijuana plant
it wants to survive it's trying to
produce
seeds for the next generation it's
trying to propagate its young
so melissa mentioned the toxins that are
in coffee
the coffee has more than one stimulant
effect on people it's not just one
chemical that's in coffee
actually sorry it's not that it's not
just that we have only one physiological
response
to the chemicals that's in coffee that's
sorry that's that's the real point it's
not really the complexity of what's in
coffee it's the complexity of what our
bodies do in reaction to it
interestingly okay caffeine
is in coffee to prevent insects
from eating the coffee plant okay
cocaine
developed its toxins that people also
find exciting
don't do cocaine kids say no to drugs
but some people subjectively think it's
pleasant to be on cocaine it's not
god didn't create cocaine to get you
high god didn't create coffee to get you
high god didn't create marijuana get you
high
there is no god that created the banana
to fit in your pocket or the palm of
your hand or to taste great or anything
else
right the bean
did not evolve to nourish you
and nor did someone design it to nourish
you the bean is out here
trying to trying to survive on its own
now
just mention this briefly because i
remember this came up in my classes at
university
when i was at um when i was at uh
uh so you just question i can answer so
yomana
i feel like strong bad hair anyway sorry
i don't have pronunciation
asks have you tried the dish called fool
from the middle east
yes and i was the introduced melissa to
it many many exotic and international
uh foods melissa had her first time with
me melissa had never had indian food
before she yeah
but yeah i've had i've had fool many
times fool is made out of fava beans
so yeah it's a memorable memorable
middle eastern uh bean dish
yeah i was on i was on a roll there
um looking at the universe as a
fundamentally benevolent intentionally
designed
place that that that's intended
to suit your convenience your nutrition
that at a deep level is at the base of
this
somewhat hysterical reaction to
having indigestion caused by beans where
they have they eat beans
and it's not just they feel indigestion
for six hours or 12 hours
it's that they feel betrayed right
but look if you buy a manufactured
product so this this is supposed to fit
my particular
phone i own two phones at the moment uh
but this is one of my two phones if i
get this
and the holes aren't in the right place
it doesn't quite fit the phone
i feel like what do you mean this is
supposed to be for the same model of
phone
you feel betrayed you feel like that why
because this was made
intentionally by a manufacturer it is
made it is the product
of an intention and a design by one of
your human beings and if you were
deceived
if you were sent the wrong piece of
plastic
that was also a decision maybe made in a
warehouse by a human being the same that
you were
did they say oh well we ran out of the
pieces of plastic for that phone we'll
give them a different piece of plastic
and we'll make the same amount of money
whatever the whatever the decision was
right
you feel deceived you feel that down but
this is a much more
profound sense of
betrayal because they're blaming the
whole universe they're blaming the world
itself they're blaming god
and they felt that veganism
was an ideology that made the whole
world make sense for them
now man's place in the universe made
sense
freely the frugivore is still saying
this oh you have to understand guys
okay can i really do philly's voice can
i roll
she's a pretty coarse australian
you have to uh
freely is really a challenge to do
freely i can do valley girl
i can do british but to do freelee's
particular form of kind of
nasal whining australian accent this is
a challenge
you have to understand
we were evolved to be frugivores
we're like these monkeys that eat we're
not evolved to eat grains we're not
involved to eat cooked food
this is your place and this is the
universe's way of telling you
that you're eating the wrong you know
it's shallow and it's deep at the same
time you know
like
i have no australian friends none this
hampers me
i've had british friends and thanks i
really haven't spent that much time
around the straws
i did except when i was in cambodia and
this stuff you know
um when you feel betrayed by the diet
you feel like this whole ideology you
signed up for for
man's place in the universe for the
human
niche in the biosphere for the history
of evolution and the future of our
society
that was all predicated on this groovy
view of the world
that precisely beans exist uh denim or
shoe and that that
and that everyone else has it wrong that
you know that you alone have cracked the
code that you're in touch with
the diet and the way of life that humans
were intended to have and everyone
else's
is doing it wrong you know so they feel
let down by that right and then very
often not all the time but most of the
time there's this kind of intermediate
stage
of greatly exaggerating the illnesses
they think
are caused by the vegan diet oh well if
i'm having indigestion caused by beans
if i'm having a digestion caused by
uh tofu it's another common one you know
oatmeal yeah melissa's mission well then
that must be that i'm suffering from
sibo or must be that i have some other
chronic terrible health condition that's
caused
by veganism because allegedly they
didn't have any of these problems before
now i won't digress into this point but
every single one of these videos
these same people talk about the fact
that they had these problems for decades
before
the vegan diet back when they ate a
meat-based diet before becoming vegan
they had these problems guys uh it's
great we got 52 people in the audience
we got 29 thumbs up
if more of you could hit the thumbs up
button more people will uh
m more people will will join here's an
interesting question going way off topic
nacho says hey nacho welcome back
eyes will be honest did you get off your
last live stream to watch the atheist
experience show
so no great great question but no
uh we we walk for exercise and i take
walks wearing i think more than 30
pounds of weight in my back where a very
heavy backpack
to get more exercise out of the walk but
i had a walk and talked to my girlfriend
and took a shower
and did other things i have not watched
the atheist experience show
basically ever i mean it's just garbage
it's just terrible
um i did offer to i got touched them i
wrote to them offering to appear on the
show to talk about buddhism
and they were to me they're
famous for being to everyone but
i felt that slime positive to contribute
to that show
um well sorry lydia complained she's
still blocked well you're not lydia
because we can see and hear you right
now
sorry lydia i see your comment
complaining that you're blocked so
you're not blocked
you know so i have a there's a great
question
from menelik or perhaps manelnek
or else
if you don't mind if i mispronounce your
name in three different ways manolic
asks
what do you do for a living
you're seeing it right now
anyway guys if you want to hit the the
thumbs up button it'll just help people
uh see and come join the video
while we are live streaming and make all
of our um
make all of our lives a bit more
entertaining here
all right uh where were we
digressing from one from one point uh to
the next
all right there is this profound sense
of betrayal
that comes out of ideologically
committed vegans questioning not only
the health advice
and not only the ethical worldview right
but the sort of scientific
evolutionary and even cosmological
underpinnings of their whole world view
when they figure out that plants can be
poisonous
and let's kind of give credit where it's
due
the the pro carnivore people they always
hit on this and you
it gets results with their audience what
they hit on again against the idea of
anti-nutrients poison
venom that's in these plants that plants
have evolved poisons to prevent you
from eating them that's right the
tobacco plant evolved
nicotine right um
you know the plant we make coffee from
evolved caffeine the cocaine plant
evolved cocaine so the cocoa leaf you
know it's true
you know there are poisons and many of
the plants
we eat today have a form of latex rubber
in them
it's incredibly common among the
particular types of
green leafy vegetables we as humans like
to eat if you see the wild variety
and you break off a leaf that there will
be this white you know
liquid that comes to the surface or
break off part of a leaf i guess i
should say
um and we have often selectively bred
them
to reduce the amount of latex people who
have latex allergies there's a whole
list of foods they have to
avoid because they can't eat latex
either so
why did they do this they evolved these
things to prevent themselves
from being eaten to defend themselves
against insects and
mammals and what have you yes you know
but
think about again the psychology the
thing about the perception of the
problem as something
separate from and connected to uh
oh by the way so i did pronounce his
name correctly all right thanks for
thanks for the feedback that's a good
guess so the third one was correct
the third of the three options um
uh but look okay so there's a shallow
level
and a deep level to that too right so on
a shallow level there's just
accepting oh plants are our enemies
they want to survive they're not our
servants
they're not our parents they're not
lovingly feeding and nourishing us
there isn't a creator god or a designer
that created
beans or broccoli or bananas or anything
else to help us
these plants are on this but they're out
they're out here on their own they've
got their own agenda
they're working against and they will
try to poison us or
sabotage our digestion do anything else
just to survive
the plants don't work for us the plants
are working for themselves man
okay right the the the
the pro carnivore people i think it's
telling that they hit on this again and
again
that they're saying well unlike the meat
of an animal
these plants contain these intentionally
evolved
poisons and anti-nutrients and that's
part of what your body is dealing with
part of its
you know really and thus also we have
all the about the so-called
fodmap diet i mean sibo is not the only
you know scientifically unverifiable
condition that's that's come out of this
there's kind of there's a list of these
kind of
gray area conditions that uh
nutritionists like to talk about and
medical doctors who work in real
hospitals will raise an eyebrow if you
come in asking about if you come in and
say your faith healer
told you that you have this condition
and so i'm saying oh yeah
um you know kind of not quite
falsifiable not quite physically real
ailments
that people uh convince themselves they
have right but
more broadly right they've shifted from
a vegan view of the world
as positively one in which nature
embraces humanity
and humanity embraces nature if only you
can discover
that you are truly a frugivore that you
are truly meant to be a fruit-eating
monkey and return to your
ancient others and it shifts from that
to a diametrically opposed view
of what could be simply called a
dog-eat-dog world
suddenly it seems that the plants don't
want us to eat them
they'd rather eat us that in fact you
know
monkeys will eat humans which they will
chimpanzees will kill and eat a human
being when they have a chance and every
so often that happens
it's less frequent than shark attacks
but nevertheless
primates will kill and eat other
primates primates will engage in
cannibalism suddenly it seems as if
the mysterious creator god of the
universe
is a rather cruel and demonic presence
who has set each of us at each other's
throats
and the only way you're going to survive
and the only way you are going to thrive
is to embrace
your inner carnivore is to return
to the hobbsian war of all against all
right is to get out there and kill cows
and eat
veal and drink their blood and drink
their milk
i don't think these things are related
in a facile
or shallow way the people who go from
vegan
to ex-vegan to anti-vegan they also go
from a fundamentally caring and
nourishing worldview and philosophy
to a genuinely authentically
evil violent predatory
philosophy i mean you know jordan
peterson's daughter
you know she markets her as the
so-called
lion diet is that what you want to be
you know do you want to be a lion among
men
you know do you want to be this kind of
you know solitary predator you know
i just say i mean to really question
that i mean i know nobody wants to be a
sheep
right nobody wants to be a sheep a mommy
nobody wants to be a herd animal
you know what i mean but what is it
really what is your morality and what is
your view
of your own place you know uh within it
all right
okay so uh frida
says eating raw meat does not
sound healthy so this is where once
they've made this ideological commitment
right the extent to which they see
only what they want to see is remarkable
okay so you may or may not have seen
this but they have this list of
nutrients
oh here's a list of nutrients that's
only found in meat and never found in
plant food
ah yeah this this will not even sustain
a few minutes of
of google searching and the other the
number one most
popular claim believed by dr jordan
peterson
and his millions of followers this is
mainstream pseudoscience the mainstream
pollution
is that beef muscle tissue from a cow
is nutritionally complete they will go
and claim that
every single nutrient and mineral you
need to survive is found in the muscle
tissue
of a cow will not even sustain a moment
of google surgery
and if you bring up them like oh what
about scurvy
what about vitamin c like again it's not
easy to
sorry there's no effort at all required
to come up with a list of nutrients that
are found in
vegetables that are found in fruits and
are not found
in dead cow meat particularly again
we're just talking about one type of
organ
in the cow right just the muscle tissue
of the cow
why would that contain everything uh you
need to live
and they are committed to it they are
committed to living that lie they are
committed to seeing only
what they want to see and it doesn't
matter how much you delve into the
details about cholesterol
about blood pressure about vitamin c or
other nutrients about
fiber about health from a million
different perspectives
right they've committed to this very
fundamentally
frankly evil view of the world what they
have to say to you
is in effect don't you understand you
know
don't you understand the plants are all
full of poisons
you know nature which they formerly saw
not just as their their friend
you know but nature which was really the
underpinning of their whole philosophy
and their
their worldview right now nature has
turned against them
so they feel that they in turn must turn
against nature
they have embraced a way of living that
is
in a phrase dog eat dog